Matts moves (#2219)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/manage-access/about-access.md

---
title: "About access"
id: "about-access"
---

## Overview

dbt Cloud administrators can use dbt Cloud's permissioning model to control
user-level access in a dbt Cloud account. This access control comes in two flavors:
License-based and Role-based.

- **License-based Access Controls:** User are configured with account-wide
  license types. These licenses control the specific parts of the dbt Cloud application
  that a given user can access.
- **Role-based Access Control (RBAC):** Users are assigned to _groups_ that have
  specific permissions on specific projects or the entire account. A user may be
  a member of multiple groups, and those groups may have permissions on multiple
  projects.

## License-based access control

Each user on an account is assigned a license type when the user is first
invited to a given account. This license type may change over time, but a
user can only have one type of license at any given time.

A user's license type controls the features in dbt Cloud that the user is able
to access. dbt Cloud's two license types are:
 - **Read Only**
 - **Developer**

For more information on these license types, see [Seats & Users](cloud-seats-and-users).

> At a high-level, Developers may be granted _any_ permissions, whereas Read Only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a high level, Developers may be granted _any_ permissions, whereas Read Only
```

page in your Account Settings.

<Lightbox
    src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/dbt-cloud-enterprise/access-control/group-list.png"
    title="Viewing a list of groups in the Account Settings page."
/>

### SSO Mappings

SSO Mappings connect Identity Provider (IdP) group membership to dbt Cloud group
membership. When a user logs into dbt Cloud via a supported identity provider,
their IdP group memberships are synced with dbt Cloud. Upon logging in
successfully, the user's group memberships (and therefore, permissions) are
adjusted accordingly within dbt Cloud automatically.

:::tip Creating SSO Mappings

While dbt Cloud supports mapping multiple IdP groups to a single dbt Cloud
group, we recommend using a 1:1 mapping to make administration as simple as
possible. Consider using the same name for your dbt Cloud groups and your IdP
groups.

:::

### Permission Sets

Permission sets are predefined collections of granular permissions. Permission
sets combine low-level permission grants into high-level roles that can be
assigned to groups. Some examples of existing permission sets are:
 - Account Admin
 - Git Admin
 - Job Admin
 - Job Viewer
 - ...and more

> For a full list of enterprise permission sets, see [Enterprise Permissions](/docs/dbt-cloud/access-control/enterprise-permissions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full list of enterprise permission sets, see [Enterprise Permissions](/docs/collaborate/manage-access/enterprise-permissions).
```
